.TH xiatec 1 "2018-01-20" "xiate" "User Commands"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
xiatec \- terminal emulator (client)
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxiatec\fP
[\fB\-class\fP \fIclass\fP]
[\fB\-e\fP \fIargs...\fP]
[\fB\-hold\fP]
[\fB\-name\fP \fIname\fP]
[\fB\-title\fP \fItitle\fP]
[\fB\-\-suffix\fP \fIsuffix\fP]
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBxiatec\fP is a client for xiate. You can use it to tell the server to
launch terminal windows.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
\fBxiatec\fP provides some common options which are compatible to
those of \fBxterm\fP(1). They all start with a single dash:
.TP
\fB\-class\fP \fIclass\fP
Sets the window's class (part of the X property WM_CLASS).
.TP
\fB\-e\fP \fIargs...\fP
Interpret all remaining arguments as an \(lqargument vector\(rq, i.e.
tell \fBxiate\fP what to run. This must be the last option on the
command line.
.TP
\fB\-hold\fP
Don't close the window after the command has finished.
.TP
\fB\-name\fP \fIname\fP
Sets the window's instance name (part of the X property WM_CLASS).
.TP
\fB\-title\fP \fItitle\fP
Sets the initial window title. Be aware that the title will very likely
be overwritten by child processes.
.P
The following options are unique to \fBxiatec\fP \(em they all start
with two dashes:
.TP
\fB\-\-suffix\fP \fIsuffix\fP
\fBxiate\fP creates a UNIX socket on which it listens for incoming
connections. This socket is named \(lqxiate-\fIsuffix\fP\(rq.
\fIsuffix\fP defaults to \fBmain\fP.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
\fBxiatec\fP will return the exit code of the child program executed in
the terminal. This is a number in the range of [\fB0\fP, \fB255\fP]. (In
other words, if the child died from a signal, this information is lost
and you will only get a \fBnon-zero\fP exit code here. Refer to
\fBwait\fP(2) for more information on that topic.)
.P
A \fBnon-zero\fP exit code will be returned if there was any abnormal
program termination, such as an error in communication with the server,
an error while starting the child program, or if the user has forcibly
closed the terminal window.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH LICENSE
\fBxiatec\fP is released under the MIT license. See the accompanying
\fILICENSE\fP file.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH HISTORY
\fBxiatec\fP was originally written by Peter Hofmann. The project was
started in September 2015.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
See \fBxiate\fP(1) for the daemon.
.P
Other terminal emulators include:
.BR sakura (1),
.BR st (1),
.BR urxvt (1),
.BR xterm (1).
