.TH xiate 1 "2015-09-21" "xiate" "User Commands"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
xiate \- terminal emulator (daemon)
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxiate\fP [\fIsuffix\fP]
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBxiate\fP is the daemon component of xiate. This program must be run
in order to actually launch terminal windows.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
\fBxiate\fP knows exactly one command line argument which is optional:
.TP
\fIsuffix\fP
\fBxiate\fP creates a UNIX socket on which it listens for incoming
connections. This socket is named \(lqxiate-\fIsuffix\fP\(rq.
\fIsuffix\fP defaults to \fBmain\fP.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "KEY BINDINGS"
In windows launched by \fBxiate\fP, you can use the following key
bindings.
.P
.TP
\fBCtrl + Keypad_Plus\fP
Increase font size.
.TP
\fBCtrl + Keypad_Minus\fP
Decrease font size.
.TP
\fBCtrl + Keypad_0\fP
Reset font size.
.TP
\fBCtrl + Keypad_\fP\fIn\fP
Switch to another font, where \fIn\fP is 1 through 9. Fonts are defined
in \fIconfig.h\fP. This also resets the font size.
.TP
\fBCtrl + Shift + C\fP
Copy currently selected text into clipboard.
.TP
\fBCtrl + Shift + V\fP
Paste from clipboard.
.TP
\fBRight mouse button\fP
When hovering over URLs, you can use this button to copy the URL to your
clipboard.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH RESOURCES
You can set and change the resources using X11 tools like
\fBxrdb\fR. Many distributions do also load settings from the
\fB~/.Xresources\fR file when X starts. The following resources are
supported:
.IP "\fBbackground:\fR \fIcolor\fR" 4
.IX Item "background: color"
Use the specified color as the window's background color.
.IP "\fBforeground:\fR \fIcolor\fR" 4
.IX Item "foreground: color"
Use the specified color as the window's foreground color.
.IP "\fBcolor\fIn\fB:\fR \fIcolor\fR" 4
.IX Item "colorn: color"
Use the specified color for the color value \fIn\fR, where 0-7
corresponds to the low-intensity (normal) colors and 8-15 corresponds
to high-intensity (bold = bright foreground, blink = bright
background) colors. The canonical names are as follows: 0=black,
1=red, 2=green, 3=yellow, 4=blue, 5=magenta, 6=cyan, 7=white.
.IP "\fBcolorBD:\fR \fIcolor\fR" 4
.IX Item "colorBD: color"
Use the specified color to display bold characters when the foreground
color is the default.
.IP "\fBcursorColor:\fR \fIcolor\fR" 4
.IX Item "cursorColor: color"
Use the specified color for the cursor.
.IP "\fBcursorColor2:\fR \fIcolor\fR" 4
.IX Item "cursorColor2: color"
Use the specified color for the color of the cursor text.
.IP "\fBfont:\fR \fIfontlist\fR" 4
.IX Item "font: fontlist"
The fonts to be used. This is a comma separated list of font names.
.IP "\fBloginShell:\fR \fIboolean\fR" 4
.IX Item "loginShell: boolean"
If \fBtrue\fR, start as a login shell. Otherwise, start as a normal
sub-shell.
.IP "\fBsaveLines:\fR \fInumber\fR" 4
.IX Item "saveLines: number"
Save \fInumber\fR lines in the scrollback buffer.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.P
.TP
.B DISPLAY
Points to the X11 display on which to open terminal windows.
.TP
.B XDG_RUNTIME_DIR
Specifies the location of the UNIX socket.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH LICENSE
\fBxiate\fP is released as \(lqPIZZA-WARE\(rq. See the accompanying
\fILICENSE\fP file.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH HISTORY
\fBxiate\fP was originally written by Peter Hofmann. The project was
started in September 2015.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
See \fBxiatec\fP(1) for the client.
.P
Other terminal emulators include:
.BR sakura (1),
.BR st (1),
.BR urxvt (1),
.BR xterm (1).
