.TH xinoxc 1 "2015-09-21" "xinox" "User Commands"
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH NAME
xinoxc \- terminal emulator (client)
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBxinoxc\fP
[\fB\-class\fP \fIclass\fP]
[\fB\-e\fP \fIargs...\fP]
[\fB\-hold\fP]
[\fB\-name\fP \fIname\fP]
[\fB\-title\fP \fItitle\fP]
[\fB\-\-suffix\fP \fIsuffix\fP]
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBxinoxc\fP is a client for xinox (\(lqxinox is not XTerm\(rq). You can
use it in order to actually launch terminal windows.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH OPTIONS
\fBxinoxc\fP provides some common options which are compatible to
those of \fBxterm\fP(1). They all start with a single dash:
.TP
\fB\-class\fP \fIclass\fP
Sets the window's class (part of the X property WM_CLASS).
.TP
\fB\-e\fP \fIargs...\fP
Interpret all remaining arguments as an \(lqargument vector\(rq, i.e.
tell \fBxinox\fP what to run. This must be the last option on the
command line.
.TP
\fB\-hold\fP
Don't close the window after the command has finished.
.TP
\fB\-name\fP \fIname\fP
Sets the window's instance name (part of the X property WM_CLASS).
.TP
\fB\-title\fP \fItitle\fP
Sets the initial window title. Be aware that the title will very likely
be overwritten by child processes.
.P
The following options are unique to \fBxinoxc\fP \(em they all start
with two dashes:
.TP
\fB\-\-suffix\fP \fIsuffix\fP
\fBxinox\fP creates a UNIX socket on which it listens for incoming
connections. This socket is named \(lqxinox-\fIsuffix\fP\(rq.
\fIsuffix\fP defaults to \fBmain\fP.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "KEY BINDINGS"
.TP
\fBCtrl + Keypad_Plus\fP
Increase font size.
.TP
\fBCtrl + Keypad_Minus\fP
Decrease font size.
.TP
\fBCtrl + Shift + C\fP
Copy currently selected text into clipboard.
.TP
\fBCtrl + Shift + V\fP
Paste from clipboard.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH LICENSE
\fBxinoxc\fP is released as \(lqPIZZA-WARE\(rq. See the accompanying
\fILICENSE\fP file.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH HISTORY
\fBxinoxc\fP was originally written by Peter Hofmann. The project was
started in September 2015.
.\" --------------------------------------------------------------------
.SH "SEE ALSO"
See \fBxinox\fP(1) for the daemon.
.P
Other terminal emulators include:
.BR sakura (1),
.BR st (1),
.BR urxvt (1),
.BR xterm (1).
